
# Product Overview

**QMHB** - *Quiz Master's Handbook* - is an app for creating and organising pub quizzes. You can also use QMHB to host a quiz, and have players join in either locally or online.

The Frontend is broken into 3 sections: **Library**, **Explore**, **Play**
 
 - **Library** allows you to create your own collection of Quizzes, Rounds, and Questions.
 - **Explore** allows you to browse through pre-created Quizzes, Rounds and Questions.
   - Users can “publish” their own Questions, Rounds and Quizzes to be used by other users.
   - I.e. *“Bob”* could create a Round called *“movies”* and then search online for film related Questions, find one created by *“Jeff”* and add it into their *“movies”* round.
- **Play** allows one user to host a Quiz - as a *“QuizMaster”* - and for other users to join in and partake in the Quiz

# Structure

There are 3 main data models: **Question** => **Round** => **Quiz**

- Users create **Questions**.

- Users create **Rounds**, and then add **Questions** to each **Round**.

- Users create **Quizzes**, and then add **Rounds** to that **Quiz**.

**Questions** can shared among many **Rounds**

**Rounds** can be shared among many **Quizzes**

**Quiz** and **Question** don’t need to know about each other, **Round** is the middle man in the relationship.

# Endpoints

The following endpoints are available for consumption by the frontend.

**Questions:**

 **GET** `/questions`

Returns all Questions created by the current user.

This takes a bearer token in the request header which is used by the backend to determine the current user and return only the questions created by that user

 **GET** `/questions/all`

Returns all Questions.

Once publishing has been added this will be updated to only return questions where published == true

 **GET** `/questions/{id}`

Returns a specific Question. 

This will return the number of Rounds the Question is used in, but will not return the Rounds themselves.

 **GET** `/questions/{id}/all`

Returns a specific Question. 

This will also return all of the Rounds that the Question is used in.

 **POST** `/questions`

Creates a new Question

This will return the newly created Question, including new pieces of information that are generated by the API such as the `createdOn` timestamp.

 **PUT** `/questions/{id}`

Updates an existing Question

This will return the newly edited Question, including new pieces of information that are generated by the API such as the `lastUpdated` timestamp.

 **Delete** `/questions/{id}`

Deletes a Question

**Rounds:**

 **GET** `/rounds`

Returns all Rounds created by the current user.

This takes a bearer token in the request header which is used by the backend to determine the current user and return only the rounds created by that user.

Each Round will show the number of Questions it contains, but will not return the Questions themselves.

Each Round will show the number of Quizzes it is used in, but will not return the Quizzes themselves.

 **GET** `/rounds/all`

Returns all Rounds.

Once publishing has been added this will be updated to only return rounds where published == true

Each Round will show the number of Questions it contains, but will not return the Questions themselves.

Each Round will show the number of Quizzes it is used in, but will not return the Quizzes themselves.

 **GET** `/rounds/{id}`

Returns a specific Round. 

Each of the Questions the Round contains will be returned as part of the model.

Each Round will show the number of Quizzes it is used in, but will not return the Quizzes themselves.

 **GET** `/rounds/{id}/all`

Returns a specific Round. 

Each of the Questions the Round contains will be returned as part of the model.

Each of the Quizzes the Round is contained in will be returned as part of the model.

 **POST** `/rounds`

Creates a new Round

This will return the newly created Round, including new pieces of information that are generated by the API such as the `createdOn` timestamp.

 **PUT** `/rounds/{id}`

Updates an existing Round

This will return the newly edited Round, including new pieces of information that are generated by the API such as the `lastUpdated` timestamp.

 **Delete** `/rounds/{id}`

Deletes a Round

**Quizzes:**

 **GET** `/quizzes`

Returns all Quizzes created by the current user.

This takes a bearer token in the request header which is used by the backend to determine the current user and return only the quizzes created by that user.

Each Quiz will show the number of Rounds it contains, but will not return the Rounds themselves.

 **GET** `/quizzes/all`

Returns all Quizzes.

Once publishing has been added this will be updated to only return Quizzes where published == true

Each Quiz will show the number of Rounds it contains, but will not return the Rounds themselves.

 **GET** `/quizzes/{id}`

Returns a specific Quiz. 

Each of the Rounds the Quiz contains will be returned as part of the model.

 **POST** `/quizzes`

Creates a new Quiz

This will return the newly created Quiz, including new pieces of information that are generated by the API such as the `createdOn` timestamp.

 **PUT** `/quizzes/{id}`

Updates an existing Quiz

This will return the newly edited Quiz, including new pieces of information that are generated by the API such as the `lastUpdated` timestamp.

 **Delete** `/quizzes/{id}`

Deletes a Quiz
